when I started running these games I was
definitely looking to prove something
and looking to fulfill something that
was deep inside of me that felt
unfulfilled and probably what that was
was growing up with this in this family
of massive high achievers and so I went
out into the world deciding that the way
to get the lambs to stop screaming if
you will was to be somebody to make a
lot of money to be powerful to have
agency and so I was just gonna write and
so I went out and I did that and then it
was never enough and I became someone I
didn't like and so the lesson I learned
when it all fell apart was that there's
no amount of money and there's no amount
of freedom and there's no no type no
situation where I can enjoy it if I
don't like Who I am and like the choices
that I'm making and don't feel like I'm
acting with dignity and don't feel like
I'm acting with courage and don't feel
like I'm acting with integrity like I
really ended up in that scenario
addicted to drugs alone you know and and
very miserable and so when when the
prosecutors put this this deal on the
table will give you all your money back
and you and will give you immunity I
knew that the the only shot for me to
have a second chance to have a second
act was to continue to act with
integrity
[Music]
everybody today's episode is brought to
you by our very own impact Theory
University enjoy the episode everybody
welcome to impact Theory today's guest
is a best-selling author
much-sought-after keynote speaker and a
former Olympic level skier who at 21 was
ranked third overall in North America
she was however also arrested at
gunpoint by 17 federal agents face down
a decade's worth of prison time and got
beaten up by the mob for refusing to cut
them in on an illegal high-stakes poker
game she was running and it is no wonder
the mob tried to push in she took a
relatively small game run out of a dingy
back room of a Los Angeles nightclub and
turned it into the most exclusive
high-stakes poker game in the world the
game would eventually become so
successful that more than 100 million
dollars could change hands in a single
night and the players around the table
were some of the wealthiest most
influential and most famous people on
the planet from a less celebrities who
elite bankers hedge fund managers and
ultimately people tied to the Russian
mafia the extraordinary story of the
game itself and her steadfast refusal to
save herself from prison time by ratting
out anyone involved drew widespread
media attention she's been featured on
countless shows including Ellen vice and
NPR and had her life story turned into
the award-winning film Molly's game
written and directed by Oscar winner
Aaron Sorkin so please help me in
welcoming the woman who just one year
after emergency back surgery and being
told she would never ski again ended up
not only back on the mountain but making
the US Ski Team the Unsinkable Molly oh
my god
your story is insane it's insane and at
the same time this really cool tale of
getting great at something is that part
of what you think has resonated with
people that you were able to create this
thing that garnered so much attention
from scratch and that you had to fight
like tooth and nail to build it yeah I
think a big part of it is the underdog
story you know nothing I
ever wanted to accomplish
I was primed to do right it was I was
never the the mathematician I didn't
know anything about poker I was coming
from a pretty big deficit with with
mobile skiing having you know my entire
top spine fused together and two metal
rods and and then you know really
lighting my life on fire and blowing it
up and then having to wage the comeback
I think is something that gives us hope
you know the the underdog story the
redemption story and then you know this
the entertainment value of the mob and
celebrity is 100 million poker games
it's so crazy there's a concept that
you've talked about that you call
constructive suffering what is that and
what role has that played in your life
sure um as a as a young kid as an
athlete you know I didn't wake up one
day knowing how to ski 30 miles an hour
through a minefield of moguls launch
myself into the air and do inverted and
rotational tricks and everything about
that in the beginning felt dangerous
both mentally and physically and wrong
and so you sort of embark on this
disciplined course of action in which
you feel uncomfortable and it feels bad
but you keep doing it and I think that
I've applied that in academics and
business and in sports do you think
that's something that's teachable like
the interesting thing about the
relationship between you and your father
at least as it plays out in the movie is
that you know he's obviously pushing you
very hard there's the element you've
talked very eloquently about the desire
to please the desire to hear the
applause that pushed you yeah how much
do you think is is innate in you that
you just wanted that and how much was it
that your dad was coaching you and
molding you to be like that and do you
think that's something that you could
teach somebody else I do and I think the
part that was innate in me is innate in
almost everybody and I think that's a
deep desire to have a significant life
and to and to have a big life what I
didn't know it was how to do it
and again as a kid or even as an adult
if you don't understand that the process
of getting somewhere
feels bad a lot of the time and is
inglorious a lot of the time it happens
in the dark and in the in-betweens then
you're just listening to your body or
your mind and it feels wrong and so I'm
very grateful that I had a father who
pushed me really hard we weren't always
great friends you know and I guess that
was his his sacrifice for us is that
being a parent isn't a popularity
contest all the time you prepare your
children for life and to be formidable
how do you become formidable you keep
getting back is it about skills like
you're trying to get so good at
something or is it a mentality is it
your ability to face fear because
obviously in your story once you really
get into your world and understand it
you could go yes he is somebody who's
formidable but if you had to like break
that down into like discrete skills
right what is it that actually makes you
that way well I certainly didn't start
out life formidable that's you know and
I don't really think anyone does except
for like maybe people who are you know
like it was a crazy improbability for
them to be born like they're already
maybe a little formidable but I think I
think and I've made so many mistakes and
I failed it so many things but I think I
just always leverage this thing inside
of me that again I think everybody has
which is I'm just not gonna quit I'm
just going to keep coming back at it and
and then when you get through something
like that and you have the the
perspective and the hindsight you
realize that this thing that was the
worst thing in the world that broke your
heart and crushed you and brought you to
your knees that it was the getting
through that that that gave you the
biggest gifts you know and that enabled
you like there's not much that rattles
me now you know there's not much that
scares me and if it does I know that you
just that you just persevere through
that I mean you know in some ways when
my life fell apart
it was the most liberated I've ever been
because for the first time in my life I
didn't feel that I had to impress the
world people had written me off
and so all of a sudden it's just you
right with no expectations and that
liberated mindset is something that
affected me deeply and that I remember
and that I continue to try to replicate
so I think from being formidable is just
continuing to go at it and being willing
to to get crushed
you know the willingness how did your
and forgive me if I'm making an
assumption that isn't true but I'm
assuming it was your dad that really
helped you when you were young learn to
process fear to move towards it fast
that what what did he actually have you
do that got you it's comfortable with
fear he didn't allow it okay so some
kids aren't allowed to like not clean
the room right or like they get grounded
my PC hacked it was like if we were on
top of them of a hill and like he
decided that everyone was gonna jump off
this cliff
you know skiing if I didn't do it like I
was in big trouble you know and so what
happened there is massively
uncomfortable in the moment right but
what happens there is you're standing at
the top of this mountain you're looking
at this cliff or this mobile or whatever
you know and saying I can't there's no
way like I'm terrified of this and if
you would have just quit you don't have
that empowered feeling of doing it
because you're terrified but doing it
anyway getting to the other side of it
and going wow like I feel so proud of
myself and also just because there's all
this fear doesn't mean I can't do it
anyway and I guess that was the biggest
takeaway and listen you could definitely
argue that I took that concept too far
there was a time in my life where I
should have been paying attention to
fear and wasn't but it's the balance but
I do think that fear is the greatest
thief of dreams and and of a fulfilling
life if you had kids
how would you push them would that be
something for you where you didn't allow
fear either so it's interesting that you
ask because we are embarking on that
journey now
and and so I'm thinking about it a lot
um and and I think for me I I'm better
for how my father raised me right
but I wish he would have been more of my
friend while doing it and you know he
did the best he could he was a young dad
the way that he behaved was in our best
interest he believed but I think
especially in this day in age like yes I
think my kids will be required to finish
what they start to take everything
seriously that they do that was another
thing my dad did with us it's like we
had to put our name on everything we did
so if it was a chore if it was a family
bike ride
there was this pursuit of excellence
that needed to be honored and that's a
huge asset in life that's where you're
you can you find yourself continually
going above and beyond where most people
aren't you know but I think I will take
into account all these lessons and but I
think I'll be like less psychotic about
it like I'll be their friend while I'm
doing it like kiddo you're gonna have to
jump off this cliff I'm sorry that's
just the way it is instead of like
you're gonna cry forever like you know
you brought up your name having to put
your name on everything that you did
this is probably the part of your story
that I find most interesting and that I
hope in a similar situation I would have
the guts to live up to why were you so
protective of your name like when you
were facing a decade in jail it's pretty
crazy you could have gotten out of that
really easily and I don't even know that
most people would have blamed you why
what was it about the whole notion of
your name and who you are and your
reputation it was so important to you so
there's a couple things here when I
started running these games I was
definitely looking to prove something
and looking to fulfill something that
was deep inside of me that felt
unfulfilled and probably what that was
was growing up in this family of massive
high achievers you know a brother that's
a harvard-educated cardiothoracic
surgeon another brother that's a
two-time olympian and played in the NFL
and with an Abercrombie model and
started a charity for like granting
wishes for old people like you don't
even
was my family right and like I my skill
set wasn't so clearly defined and so I
went out into the world deciding that
the way to get the Lambs to stop
screaming if you will was to be somebody
to make a lot of money to be powerful to
have agency and so I was just gonna
write and so I went out and I did that
and then it was never enough and I
became someone I didn't like you know
what started out as running this game
and seeing it as a really cool way to
build a network and to make money and to
kind of be impressive in front of people
who move the needle became so much about
greed and so much about like the the
morality took a back seat and I would I
would be putting people in this game who
couldn't afford it just for my own gain
and so the lesson I learned when it all
fell apart was that there's no amount of
money and there's no amount of freedom
and there's no situation where I can
enjoy it if I don't like Who I am and
like the choices that I'm making and
don't feel like I'm acting with dignity
and don't feel like I'm acting with
courage and don't feel like I'm acting
with integrity like I really ended up in
that scenario addicted to drugs alone
and very miserable and so when when the
prosecutors put this this deal on the
table will give you all your money back
and you and will give you immunity I
knew that the the only shot for me to
have a second chance was to continue to
act with integrity and to me I had made
all these choices nobody you know no it
wasn't these guys puppet mastering me to
run this game I had done this whole
thing and I knew how to do it legally I
chose to do it illegally because I was
greedy and wanted more and I had to take
responsibility for these choices and so
this was you know everyone's always like
well why were you so protective of the
guys I wasn't I was protective of this
thing that I had reclaimed this dignity
of this this integrity that I had gotten
back after really losing it and I
couldn't give that up again
yeah that's pretty extraordinary what
part of your journey are you most mmm
I'm gonna I'm gonna use the word
impressed by I'm not gonna say proud of
so I'm specifically avoiding that word
but what are you most impressed by was
it standing up to player X when he took
the game away was it your skiing and
what you accomplished there after being
told you would never ski again was it
facing down the jail time like what what
in that was your more most sort of
formidable moment I think it was being
completely leveled like you know being
35 years old millions of dollars in debt
a convicted felon reputation destroyed
not hireable not you know no one wanted
to make this story because in terms of
in Hollywood because they were so afraid
of all the famous people that would you
know we're gonna object to it and just
moving that you know like moving it
inside and coming up intellectually with
a plan and even though it was improbable
and statistically you know close to
impossible just being like I'm gonna do
this and I'm just never gonna quit until
I figure my life out I'm not going to
stay down you know that was probably the
endeavor that I'm most impressed by so
how do you do that the the whole notion
of or the story I should say of how you
end up getting Aaron Sorkin to write and
direct this is really extraordinary walk
us through that from the book doesn't
quite sell as well as you want right and
like your life at that point being in
massive turmoil how do you end up
getting him to do this yeah I mean I
think being an entrepreneur as a spirit
that you apply to everything and so when
I realized just you know how sort of
decimated my life was I was like okay
well you're now the startup and so I
looked at it from that perspective and
so I did a ton of research about the
publishing industry
about Hollywood because to me the only
thing I had left or the the greatest
thing that I thought I had left in terms
of a monetizable asset was the story and
I also felt if told him the right way
the story could create a platform and
that I could someone would hire me you
know I could get a job again or at all
and so you know it was a very sort of
strategic execution of I'm gonna write
the book so that I can own my IP and
then I looked at Hollywood and I'm like
this is tough this tough industry right
in terms of like getting things done
like you can have this amazing package
and it still fails there's so many
places of where things fall apart but
then I started realizing that if you
have content which I believed that I did
and you have a writer that's a good bet
right like if you look at Aaron Sorkin's
track record he's a great bet right like
everything he does is successful has
awards nominations gets made makes noise
and so you know there was a category of
those type of people for me that that I
was really shooting for and and Aaron
was at the top and so I started kind of
pursuing that like trying to get a
meeting or whatever and most people
laughed me out of their office or said
things like let me just give you a
little piece of advice sweetheart do you
know how many people don't want this
movie May and like this movie will just
get crushed no one's gonna make this
movie and I was just like thanks for the
advice you know can you get me a meeting
with Aaron Sorkin or not you know and
and so finally you know I met an
attorney and he introduced or he said I
can ask him for a personal favor but he
was like but if he doesn't like it
that's it right it's got to resonate
with him so I should I get a meeting
with Aaron and I fly to LA and then I
walk in and you know I pitch Aaron I
give it all I gotta tell them my story
and I mean I talk about this a lot but
because he's just so great with words he
sits back in his chair and he gives me
this amused expression and he's like
well I'll tell you one thing I've never
met someone so down-on-their-luck and so
full of themselves I'm like so are you
in you know and he was and
so you know this this thing that
generally doesn't happen like that was
was a very orchestrated strategic plan
on my part um but there's also you know
luck luck plays part there if Aaron
wouldn't have liked the story you know
then I would have just moved on to
someone else but I just I was really
sure I wanted it to be him mm-hmm
yes that so I always want the everything
I do to be an instruction manual for
success especially for people who don't
think they can be successful and there
were so many moments in your story where
it's like giving up is the obvious
option and maybe the most logical option
but but you don't and so you said that
that was highly strategic I want to talk
about how you process through that
strategy so there's nothing in your
background that I came across that would
make me go oh you're an you're sort of
an obvious choice to be an entrepreneur
and yet you act with a lot of
entrepreneurial tendencies that are very
impressive so you know you have a
rebrand exercise every the bottom is
falling out you're a felon now sort of
logically it's all over but you sit down
and you say what's my monetizable asset
how do you even begin to think to ask
the question what's my monetizable asset
like how are you beginning to put that
worldview together that tells you this
is doable okay well I have like kind of
a two-part answer for that first of all
I think it had a lot to do with being in
survival mode defined survival mode have
heard you talk about this okay so having
to move back in with your mom at you
know in your 30s having not only no
money but no bank account you know the
feds seized all my assets my bank
accounts were closed I couldn't even
open a bank account not that I would
have a dollar to put in it right being
crushed under this this debt to the IRS
and the DOJ and having the tabloids tell
your story in the most reductive way
basically saying that you're like some
girl in a tight skirt that serves drinks
at a poker game when in actuality I was
the owner-operator and the bank you know
and the finance arm and
addicted to drugs and alcohol I mean
that's a big one
and just basically being super finished
you know so survival mode I think is
comprised of this state where you have
nothing to lose and you can't live like
that right that's not a life and so two
things happen in survival mode one I got
pretty fearless and two I had this for
the first time in my life the strange
brand of pure confidence because no one
expected anything from me and so I think
a lot had to do with that now when I got
out of crisis my normal mind came back
in and I desperately wanted to return to
crisis mode mind without the crisis and
so what I did is I like pursued that
with everything I had I started reading
a ton of books I spoke to people that I
respect in all different fields
spiritual people
neuroscientists psychologists elders I
respect in a 12-step program and I just
through trial-and-error cycled through
these different sort of ways to return
me to this liberated fearless confident
mindset because it was so powerful you
know and it was so effective and um so
the answer to that is I think you've got
to figure out a way to to get your own
self out of the way because the only
thing that's ever said in between myself
or anyone else and their ultimate dream
is themselves right there's going to be
obstacles of course but you can navigate
them unless you think you can't so the
two things you know there's there's just
like a couple of things that I've found
if I practice on a daily basis that I
can stay sort of in that Flynn that flow
mind right and it's interesting one of
them is meditation and you know a lot of
people and like you know meditation is
stigmatized as this is as a very
spiritual practice or a practice just
you know like calm you down or whatever
and I think those are great applications
for it but in
my experience meditation is an
absolutely critical performance tool
because it allows you to train your mind
and the second thing is something that
that I learned in 12-step program if I
practice all the time gets me there and
it's you know you make a list of your
the weak parts of your character like in
sorcerer where you know like for
instance self-pity selfishness fear you
know and then you you decide that you're
gonna you're gonna take them into the
world and work on them so like my
process is is okay this week I'm looking
at I'm looking at fear right and I am
alert to every time that I think in a
fearful way where I act in a fearful way
and I take an action right there a
contrary action and create you know like
put in a courageous thought or make a
courageous action at the end of the day
I review my day and when I start to show
up more courageously than fearfully I
move on to the next thing which is you
know selfishness and or self-pity and
you know the contrary action there is
gratitude or whatever and over time a
couple things start to happen one I am
for the first time
truly unshakably confident like I like
myself I know that I'm doing this work I
know that I'm showing up in a principled
way and the second thing that happens is
like my EQ goes through the roof and
then you know the third thing that
happened was I'm not such a you know I'm
not a nightmare anymore and
relationships I get engaged just
personal relationships start to thrive
and so you know I think when people in
the past have told me like well this is
a simple process right this this process
of like being successful or
accomplishing your goals there's a
really simple process you just have to
decide to and like put the right you
know intention there
I think that's [__] you know I think
it takes work and I think it takes a
daily program of action in which you're
working on yourself and training
yourself for the opportunities that
arise how do you do that so one thing
that you seemed very
efficient debt is learning so going to
poker don't know poker start learning it
publishing learn that Hollywood learn
that like you've done a really good job
of being a novice stepping into
something and figuring it out do you
have a particular process that you go
through and you're approaching something
new mm-hmm I saw this documentary I
can't read the title and I'd like to so
I could adequately quote it but they
it's about studying really successful
people and one of the attributes that
they quote that's that's permeates
through most successful people as this
rage to master rage to man yeah and I
had me at rage I know tell me more I
know I loved it right just get you so
everything that I've ever done anything
I've ever done well became somewhat of
an obsession and that requires an
honesty about what you're pursuing you
know you can't just just like in my in
my experience I can't just decide that I
want to do something that I don't care
about I have to care you know and so
like the first component is making sure
that that I have that rage to master
that it's going to be something I want
to spend a lot of time with you know and
once you've settled intellectually on
your strategy then I think the next part
is making sure that you that you are
putting yourself in the best position to
execute and that has to do with taking
care of yourself you know getting enough
sleep eating the right things and then
you know what I'm talking about like
training your mind and and strengthening
your character and just making sure that
you're putting yourself in the best
place for execution because execution is
it you know it's really an and execution
so much of it is just endurance and
endurance like to be able to out endure
your own mind to you know if people just
kept going a little bit longer they
could probably get there how do you make
sure that that endurance is fruitful
though so I imagine you
taking the meetings right you go in
people are telling you this is never
gonna work nobody in Hollywood wants to
see this I'm guessing it while there is
an element of beating your head against
the wall and just not giving up there's
also an adjustment of strategy yes how
do you like suss that moment out where
you like what I'm doing isn't getting me
the result that I want I need to be
brutally honest about you know the the
results that I'm getting and then be
able to see that and adjust I think
that's a great question and I think
being a great entrepreneur or someone
who survives the world that all takes a
fair amount of of flexibility and being
nimble but if there's one thing I've
learned in this in life is that we are
not just like passive riders on on our
on the things that like we don't just
have to accept these things about
ourselves
that don't work we get to change them
then you know I probably wouldn't have
realized that to the extent that I did
had my life not falling apart in such a
catastrophic way and I had I was forced
to kind of you know come out of the
ashes but like I know for sure you can
change yourself you can change your life
and you can become more successful at
what you want to become more successful
at whatever that is do you ever see
people struggle with that like they
legitimately just cannot see yeah what
they're doing yeah so I really want
self-awareness to be something that
people can develop yeah how do people
become more aware of how they're
tripping themselves up well that's a
question that I'm thinking about a lot
because I want to I'm writing a book
about sort of how to change your life
and and developing an app as well and
and so I think that there are some
pretty specific questions if I if I sat
down and thought about it like I think
there's some specific questions but I
also think a really good resource is to
ask people that you trust they're going
to tell you the truth and it's a hard
question you know it's a hard question
but it's important to not surround
yourself by sycophants it's important to
surround yourself with people that keep
you accountable whether it's at work or
you know if you sat down
your boss or your co-workers or your
friends or your family and said look I
want you to be really honest with me you
know if you had to tell me like where
the weakest part of my personality or
like what what I should change that what
is it
you know being amenable to listening to
that and having the courage to hear that
is the inflection point you know that's
that's the turning point meaning that's
the point of which you can begin to
actually improve your life and get out
of whatever hole you're in yeah I would
agree with that pretty aggressively you
said for years and years and years your
dad specifically was trying to like get
you to realize the life that you were
living was going to end in the crash
that ended in yes how did you reject
that when he was saying it and then how
did you guys heal the relationship after
it all happened yeah I was mad at my dad
because he was so hard on you because he
was so hard on me and it seemed like he
was much nicer to my brothers and liked
them better and he was he was such an
authoritarian you know and and that just
killed me but when everything fell apart
and then and then when I got arrested by
the feds and you know federally indicted
and I had to go to New York to get an
attorney I called him he said get a
public defender he was pissed at me you
know he was like I've been trying to
tell you about this for years and now
you're in this place where an attorney
wants two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars for a retainer and you know
they've and the feds have seized all
your assets and now you want money from
me like and so I got mad at him for
being mad at me for getting federally
indicted and then right before I got
sentenced he called me and he said I'm
coming to California to talk to you
because you're my only daughter you're
about to be sentenced in federal court
and and we cannot not be speaking and
and so you know for people that saw the
movie the scene that happened in Central
Park happened it just happened in in Los
Angeles and it was a bit different in
terms of his answer to the question when
I finally got vulnerable and I finally
just asked the question that was you
know really the the root of this sadness
and anger and resentment I was like why
didn't you like me as much
my brother's you know and he his answer
was look I have been a psychotherapist
for 40 years I know how difficult the
world is and I think it's even harder
for women and so I wanted to make you
formidable and so all those years of
thinking you know God he was so unfair
to me and he liked them so much better
and you know it was kind of diffused in
a moment and and there was a there was a
an honesty and an a contrition on both
of our parts and and just you know what
we're sitting there like the stakes
couldn't be higher
I might lose my freedom right and and
from that moment on our relationship
changed and like my dad is my best
friend now like before I go on for
keynotes he's like calling me like
trying to coach me you know I'm like
okay dad but I mean I have the dad that
I always wanted I have the relationship
with my dad that I always wanted you
know it calls me the champ now and I
mean listen like no matter how high
achieving your siblings are if you get
Kevin Costner to play your dad in a
movie are gonna be the favorite kids
after that that's amazing yeah it's a
pre fascinating part of your story and
that real life answer about being harder
for women and you've talked a lot about
the power of femininity I'd love to hear
your thoughts on that you've said that
you don't think that if women want to be
really successful they shouldn't try to
ape men they should try to lean into
their femininity so what does that look
like and why is it advantageous okay so
I can just tell you from my experience
so if I would have gone into the
industry that I went into which is
gambling right and if I was a man I'm
screwed like they're like everyone's
male
they all have their sort of like way of
thinking about it and there's so much
competition but because I was a woman
and I had a fresh perspective and I
brought a different sort of innate
mindset and a different vibe to it I was
able to see a different way to do things
I was able to see that this wasn't just
about a poker game right this was about
building a community this was about
mythology this was about fantasy this
was about giving someone something to be
part of that was like you know took them
out of their regular life you realize
all of that just looking at these guys
asking a simple question why are they
doing this why are they doing this why
do they want to be here you know I I was
obsessed with reading when I was little
and I was obsessed with anything that
fantasy related and anything that would
get me out of right here right now and
what I realized I believe largely in the
in the in the power of experiences you
know and that's why when I sort of
entered into this thing as a cocktail
waitress and ultimately wanted to build
my own game but was competing against
like the billionaire boys club for it I
was like if I can create this incredible
experience right where it's it's
unforgettable it's still memorable if
you know I can create this game where
you're sitting next to your absolute
hero in life if I can create this game
where the economics make enough sense
where you're scared right where you're
like it's it's you know it's battle
royale right if I can have beautiful
people who have memorized everything you
drink everything you eat and or make you
feel so special and you know and and if
I can see strategically a table of nine
people in which each one is more
interesting the next like I believe that
even though I know nothing about running
a game even though I'm don't know
anything about finance I don't know
anything about poker right they're gonna
want to come back you know I'm a big
believer in experiences particularly
with people with everyone it doesn't
matter you know because it's it takes
you out of your daily life and gives you
a place of refuge you talked about
creating a beautiful game and there was
something about that that really
struck me especially through the lens of
like really looking at the world from a
feminine perspective and building
accordingly and but there was so much
entrepreneurial wisdom in the way that
you went about it from researching the
way the casinos pump in a certain smell
that shows that it increases people
likelihood to make a big bet and so you
had custom-made candles I mean it was
there was like so much thought that went
into it that to me are the signs of what
it takes for real greatness to have such
a deep understanding of the game how
what do you think about that what are
the principles of excellence and you
know by way of example what were things
that you did in the game that you feel
you've never really gotten enough credit
for recognizing the importance of so
it's in the details you know and you
know inside when you're taking a
shortcut right when you haven't shown up
a hundred percent and like my philosophy
is if you want to build something great
right
no shortcuts ever eat every detail you
put your name on so what were things you
did for the game that were the no
shortcuts example like I continued to
seek out extraordinary people to place
around I I never stopped recruiting even
when I had tables full of games you know
I knew to keep it new and interesting I
you know I I really cultivated
relationships with people I took the
time to learn about their lives one
thing I know about people is that one of
the best things you can do for them is
solve a problem that they didn't ask you
to solve yeah I can imagine what's the
most powerful useful thing you've
learned from addiction recovery the
first thing I have learned is to be ok
with uncomfortable feelings emotions to
just ride it out in weather that storm
because before I got sober like you know
I could withstand a lot but then what I
couldn't withstand I would just
I'm out you know and then I couldn't do
that anymore and and and then you have
to ride it out and then you realize that
like because you think it's gonna last
forever
you know that uncomfortable feeling and
then you just kind of you stay with it
and you accept it and then what the next
time it happens it's not really that big
of a deal
so definitely to just sort of like ride
out discomfort but the the the main
thing I learned from a 12-step program
is it's a program of action to live life
peacefully and with a sense of
fulfillment that doesn't require
watching someone lose 100 million
dollars at your poker game or doesn't
require going on this crazy trip or you
know making five million dollars that
night like it's it's it's this ability
to just be comfortable in your own skin
and to be and to find joy in the parts
of life that aren't exploding in your
face you know and and the other way was
not sustainable and how do i reconcile
in your personality the being formidable
being somebody who's driven and you've
said multiple times I'm always going to
be ambitious with the you know
meditating every day finding equanimity
now regardless of you know the ups and
downs sort of being even keel is it a
balancing act for you is it that there
is no discrepancy between the two and
they coexist perfectly like how does one
come to understand what appear to be two
sides of a coin yeah I mean I think that
the first of all I think meditation will
make you dangerous like I think that
that is aligned with ambition because if
you walk into a room and you don't have
this like annoying inner dialogue and
you don't have fear and you are
confident you're gonna put your also
like quiet they don't see you coming and
you're gonna eat everyone up in that
room I think meditation makes you
dangerous you know I think that there's
applications of it that can make you
peaceful and live a monastic life and
eat rice out of a bowl and all that
stuff but that's not ever going to be my
intention but but living a principled
life meditating get
goodnight like all this stuff this is
what allows me to enjoy being ambitious
I never really enjoyed my life before it
was always like oh you know my happiness
was tied to the next win or like even
when I did win like almost immediately
that voice would come in like it's not
nothing at a good more you gotta do more
this relentless pursuit of excellence
that really was a huge reason why I used
drugs and alcohol to you know was to
like shut it up like I need some peace
and so this sort of practice of making
sure I'm living a principled life and
learning how to manage my mind and not
tap into the [__] I don't want to tap
into is the way that I enjoy being
ambitious so you're working on the book
now about how to help people change
their lives what what is a key thing
that you don't think people have fully
understood or that's you know out there
already that you think seem to be really
useful for people so all this stuff is
out there right it just is shrouded in a
bit of different language and vernacular
and I think training your mind is so
important meditation is that is the way
that I do it right and and it's and its
really worked for me and it worked in a
short amount of time do it however you
want sit in whatever position you want
but like train your mind so that it does
what you want it to do and you can
choose what you want to focus on and you
can put you know not and choose not to
focus on what you don't in in my in my
experience like if I had one thing to
say that it would be that the second
thing would be you know work on your
character because everybody has things
to work on and that's generally what's
standing in the way of your success do
you have rules for a character like what
that means life rules that you live by
well yeah but I think it's mostly just
choosing to live in a way that's
opposite of of a weak character so like
I think it's a great exercise for
everybody to decide like well I'm gonna
look at selfishness right like where
do I like where am I thinking selfishly
and where am i showing up selfishly and
where can I like maybe even up that
score a little bit like it's just it's
it's it's way more simple than I think
people think like you don't want to
return your car to the grocery store
will then return yours and someone
else's cuz then you start to change
yourself that's interesting you know you
start to take daily actions that change
yourself and and really you should
you're going to show up better in the
world and you're gonna like yourself
better and I think that that's a really
highly overlooked again performance tool
like I thought you know I watched I was
around some of the world's most
successful wealthy powerful people I can
count on this hand and half of this hand
how many people were enjoying their life
yeah I think there's something so
powerful about the way you have found
the interface of idea and reality thank
you yeah I'm writing a book and I'm
actually at the same time launching an
app that can take this program and help
you put it into action without because I
think there's two really big downfalls
in the self-help industry one is that
you have to self motivate all the time
without reward or incentive or
recognition and so I think you can game
a fight a bit in a nap and then the
other one is I think self-help is kind
of [__] because I think it takes a
community go on and so what I want to do
is create this program of action in this
app the program that's created from
things that I've learned that if you
practice this like like you're training
for a sport whatever like you can check
you know you can you can get on board
but then it connects you to a community
of people who are doing the same thing
because a huge part of why again like
you know I'm an entrepreneur so if
anywhere I go I'm gonna look at it
through that lens so I'm an AAA right
and I'm like what about this works right
what about this works because I see
these people come in and they're done
okay
there's no there they are done and then
I see them the light go back on and you
know they have family isn't they have
jobs and whatever and I'm like what's
working here you know because I don't
see it working anywhere else in
and it's working at such extreme cases
so a huge part of it is community around
shared experience right so if you decide
you want to change your life and that
can look like anything and it really
what it is is it's tapping into a power
to live because how many times did I say
I need to get out of this world out of
this poker world or I need to not do
drugs anymore or I need to not call that
guy because he's an [__] or not eat
that like piece of candy because it has
too many carbs or whatever and then
still do it so right there there's a
lack of power there's what we want and
what we desperately want right like with
every atom in our body or like
procrastination is a lives that lives in
that place too how do we tap into the
power to make these choices that are
aligned with what we really want this
coming up with a program of daily action
that actually like changes your brain
changes your thoughts and gives you
power of choice and then connecting you
to a group of people who want to help
you who are doing the same thing or
tasked by this higher calling and so
that's kind of what I am developing
right now and Co launching with my book
that's I like the sound of that I'll be
very interested to see what you do so we
just launched impact Theory University
and a big thing that we're looking at is
that exact same thing like the that can
dropout rate of online courses is
ungodly like people they just don't see
it through and so how do you help them
see it through getting around people who
think like you think social
accountability I've always found it
super interesting that they say that the
the only thing that is going to just
dramatically increase your odds in a
12-step program to being successful is
that you help somebody else which is the
12-step right yeah so that to me is
really interesting that that sense of
there's some human dynamic at play where
if I can do something for you then it
reinforces it in me and they say the
best way to learn something is to teach
it and so there's really something
extraordinary in that dynamic so really
I'll be waiting with bated breath to see
if you pull it off very exciting I pull
it off that's right I'm not betting
against you trust in the Maryland
all right so what is the best way to
find you and learn more about you so I'm
not super active but whenever when I
have something to say or something to
share and as this thing gets closer I
will be sharing on on social media and I
Instagram as I'm Molly bloom and so's
Twitter so I am like the letter I the
letter M and then Molly bloom and then
you know as this thing gets closer we'll
have a website and more information
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
I want to give them an actual program of
action and connect them to a community
of people to help people change their
life and and tap into power the power to
do what you want to do in the world and
not give in to this this powerless state
of mind where you know sometimes you can
and sometimes you can't Molly thank you
so much for coming on the show that was
wonderful guys if you haven't seen the
movie Molly's game first of all watch it
I think it is extraordinarily well done
is his amazing story the book equally
amazing check it out go stress her to be
more engaged on social media I was
mortified by how little she posts but
what she posts is awesome so get out
there heckle her until she brings more
nuggets of wisdom all right if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care Molly thank you
what's up impactive is as you guys know
my mission in life is to provide the no
BS instruction manual for success and to
that end we've launched our brand-new
learning platform impact theory
university our goal with ITU is to
provide you with curriculum that will
help you take your career business or
personal development to the next level
so regardless of your end goal ITU is
designed to provide you with the
universal principles and tactics of
success that will propel you forward so
whether you want to build a fortune 500
company advance quickly up the ranks at
your company become a more effective
parent or partner or simply get unstuck
there are core principles that apply and
that's where impact theory university
comes in but to be clear ITU is not
another podcast or conversation with an
influencer you can get all of that for
free right here on our YouTube page
instead it is structured education
delivered in a compelling format and
paired with social support and
accountability we offer two tracks
business and mindset regardless of which
track you choose you'll gain access to a
library of all of our pre-recorded
classes as well as two hours of live
teaching per month where you'll have the
opportunity to engage with me ask
questions and meet others in the
community every class also comes with an
actionable worksheet designed to help
you take the immediate action that is
required to make any new skill stick and
last but certainly not least as a
student enrolled in ITU you'll get
access to an exclusive online community
of other like-minded individuals who
will help you study the content work
through all of your goals and keep you
accountable at all times itu pricing
starts as low as forty seven dollars a
month for the mindset track and $97 a
month for the business track there's
also a 50% discount if you buy the whole
year upfront and additional discounts if
you sign up for both mindset and
business when you bundle all of the
discounts together the cost drops to
roughly 80 cents a day I think itu truly
is the best content we have ever made
but if you sign up and don't agree that
it's worth say ten times what you paid
just take advantage of our no questions
asked thirty day
back guarantee I don't want any of us to
get paid unless we're delivering
disproportionate value so trust of the
refund process will be absolutely
hassle-free
and if this sounds like something that
would help you move forward in your life
but you can't afford it
we do have a scholarship program that
you can apply for that provides free
access to those in need
all right everybody if you want to take
advantage of this and make it
dramatically poured in your life sign up
today the link is in the description or
you can go directly to University dot
impact Theory dot-com I look forward to
seeing you on the inside my friends and
until then be legendary take care if you
find and can imagine the bright side and
anything that will become a reality what
you can't think anything is going to be
given to you other than opportunity and
the only way to show appreciation for
opportunity is to react not to say thank
you